README.md, before:

# Adjusted Bounce Rate <br>WordPress Plugin

A well-designed plugin that helps track the Adjusted Bounce Rate in Google Analytics, and improve accuracy of time on page, time on site, and bounce rate metrics.

## Description

Google Analytics does not properly track some important engagement metrics like Avg Time on Site, Avg Session Duration, and Bounce Rate.  This plugin uses a commonly-accepted JavaScript method of improving the accuracy of these stats.

This plugin addresses the issues as identified by the Google Analytics team at [http://analytics.blogspot.com/2012/07/tracking-adjusted-bounce-rate-in-google.html](http://analytics.blogspot.com/2012/07/tracking-adjusted-bounce-rate-in-google.html).

Others have also blogged about their own solutions at:
* [http://padicode.com/blog/analytics/the-real-bounce-rate/](http://padicode.com/blog/analytics/the-real-bounce-rate/)
* [http://briancray.com/posts/time-on-site-bounce-rate-get-the-real-numbers-in-google-analytics](http://briancray.com/posts/time-on-site-bounce-rate-get-the-real-numbers-in-google-analytics)

See [http://grantnorwood.com/wordpress/plugins/adjusted-bounce-rate/](http://grantnorwood.com/wordpress/plugins/adjusted-bounce-rate/) for more information about the plugin and the author, or visit the GitHub repo at [https://github.com/grantnorwood/adjusted-bounce-rate](https://github.com/grantnorwood/adjusted-bounce-rate) to fork my code or submit an issue.

## Features

1. Set the engagement tracking event interval.  (Defaults to 10 secs.)
1. Set the max engagement time, which allows you to customize when the session should be
considered abandoned.  (Defaults to 20 mins.)
1. Set the minimum engagement time, which can be used to set an initial amount of time
required to count the user has having engaged.  (Defaults to 10 secs.)
1. Customize the event Category, Action and Label names to be displayed in Google Analytics.
1. Uses either the old pageTracker code, the newer asynchronous code, or the newest Universal Analytics code.
1. Choose header or footer placement for the code.
1. Compatible with Yoast's Google Analytics for WordPress. For example, detects if analytics
were loaded, or if they are disabled because of the currently logged in user's role.


## Installation

1. Download the zip file from WordPress' plugin site: http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/adjusted-bounce-rate/
1. Unzip the file.
1. Upload your plugin directory to your server's `/wp-content/plugins/` directory.
1. Activate the plugin using WordPress' admin interface:
	* Regular sites:  Plugins
	* Sites using multisite networks:  My Sites > Network Admin > Plugins
1. Configure the plugin options in Settings > Adjusted Bounce Rate.




## Removal

1. Click "Uninstall" on the plugins page for Adjusted Bounce Rate.  All plugin options will be deleted upon uninstall, but not when simply deactivating the plugin.
1. That's it!




## Frequently Asked Questions

### Is this plugin multi-site compatible?
Yes, for multi-site networks you must activate this plugin via the Network Admin panel.

### Where can I submit bugs or request new features?
Create an issue on the GitHub repo at [https://github.com/grantnorwood/adjusted-bounce-rate](https://github.com/grantnorwood/adjusted-bounce-rate).




## Changelog

### 1.0.1 (2014-05-13)
* Fixed issue when detecting if Yoast's Google Analytics for WordPress plugin is active.

### 1.0.0 (2014-05-13)
* Initial public release.

### 0.9.1 (2014-05-05)
* Total rewrite to better handle advanced features.
* Now handles minimum and maximum engagement time.
* Custom event category and action variables added.
* Debug mode and better console logging added.

### 0.9.0 (2014-04-29)
* Beta release.

Commit message:

Added compatibility with Ajaxify (https://github.com/browserstate/ajaxify).  Bumped version to 1.1.0.
git-svn-id: https://plugins.svn.wordpress.org/adjusted-bounce-rate/trunk@914861 b8457f37-d9ea-0310-8a92-e5e31aec5664

README.md, after:

# Adjusted Bounce Rate <br>WordPress Plugin

A well-designed plugin that helps track the Adjusted Bounce Rate in Google Analytics, and improve accuracy of time on page, time on site, and bounce rate metrics.

## Description

Google Analytics does not properly track some important engagement metrics like Avg Time on Site, Avg Session Duration, and Bounce Rate.  This plugin uses a commonly-accepted JavaScript method of improving the accuracy of these stats.

This plugin addresses the issues as identified by the Google Analytics team at [http://analytics.blogspot.com/2012/07/tracking-adjusted-bounce-rate-in-google.html](http://analytics.blogspot.com/2012/07/tracking-adjusted-bounce-rate-in-google.html).

Others have also blogged about their own solutions at:
* [http://padicode.com/blog/analytics/the-real-bounce-rate/](http://padicode.com/blog/analytics/the-real-bounce-rate/)
* [http://briancray.com/posts/time-on-site-bounce-rate-get-the-real-numbers-in-google-analytics](http://briancray.com/posts/time-on-site-bounce-rate-get-the-real-numbers-in-google-analytics)

See [http://grantnorwood.com/wordpress/plugins/adjusted-bounce-rate/](http://grantnorwood.com/wordpress/plugins/adjusted-bounce-rate/) for more information about the plugin and the author, or visit the GitHub repo at [https://github.com/grantnorwood/adjusted-bounce-rate](https://github.com/grantnorwood/adjusted-bounce-rate) to fork my code or submit an issue.

## Features

1. Set the engagement tracking event interval.  (Defaults to 10 secs.)
1. Set the max engagement time, which allows you to customize when the session should be
considered abandoned.  (Defaults to 20 mins.)
1. Set the minimum engagement time, which can be used to set an initial amount of time
required to count the user has having engaged.  (Defaults to 10 secs.)
1. Customize the event Category, Action and Label names to be displayed in Google Analytics.
1. Uses either the old pageTracker code, the newer asynchronous code, or the newest Universal Analytics code.
1. Choose header or footer placement for the code.
1. Compatible with Yoast's Google Analytics for WordPress. For example, detects if analytics
were loaded, or if they are disabled because of the currently logged in user's role.
1. Compatible with Ajaxify jQuery plugin.


## Installation

1. Download the zip file from WordPress' plugin site: http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/adjusted-bounce-rate/
1. Unzip the file.
1. Upload your plugin directory to your server's `/wp-content/plugins/` directory.
1. Activate the plugin using WordPress' admin interface:
	* Regular sites:  Plugins
	* Sites using multisite networks:  My Sites > Network Admin > Plugins
1. Configure the plugin options in Settings > Adjusted Bounce Rate.




## Removal

1. Click "Uninstall" on the plugins page for Adjusted Bounce Rate.  All plugin options will be deleted upon uninstall, but not when simply deactivating the plugin.
1. That's it!




## Frequently Asked Questions

### Is this plugin multi-site compatible?
Yes, for multi-site networks you must activate this plugin via the Network Admin panel.

### Where can I submit bugs or request new features?
Create an issue on the GitHub repo at [https://github.com/grantnorwood/adjusted-bounce-rate](https://github.com/grantnorwood/adjusted-bounce-rate).




## Changelog

### 1.1.0 (2014-05-15)
* Added compatibility with Ajaxify (https://github.com/browserstate/ajaxify).

### 1.0.1 (2014-05-13)
* Fixed issue when detecting if Yoast's Google Analytics for WordPress plugin is active.

### 1.0.0 (2014-05-13)
* Initial public release.

### 0.9.1 (2014-05-05)
* Total rewrite to better handle advanced features.
* Now handles minimum and maximum engagement time.
* Custom event category and action variables added.
* Debug mode and better console logging added.

### 0.9.0 (2014-04-29)
* Beta release.
